# Raw datasets (and scripts to retrieve them as applicable)

This folder contains all non-sensitive raw datasets obtained for this project.

When adding data, please add your dataset to this readme with a quick blurb listing:
- its source (original source location and retrieval method)
- extent (temporal/other windowing factors, size of the dataset, and if it's a sample, how large of a sample it is and how samples were chosen)
- any non-obvious variables (to newcomers to the dataset)
- and uses so far!

|File / Folder|Description|Used / Generated by|
|---|----|----|
|[2018_FBI_aggregate_crime_data.xls](2018_FBI_aggregate_crime_data.xls) through [2014_FBI_aggregate_crime_data.xls](2014_FBI_aggregate_crime_data.xls)|Yearly editions of a public dataset obtained from [the FBI's Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) website](https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2018/crime-in-the-u.s.-2018/tables/table-69) listing aggregated crime rates for a variety of crimes across each state.|Intended for approximation of crime rates. No longer in active use.|
|missing_expungeability**.csv| Offenses missing indicator of expungeability after linkage between Suffolk and Northwestern data with  Master Crime List offense with Expunge categories spreadsheet provided by CfJJ. Filled in manually by cross-referencing with the original statute; confirmed by Sana in a phone call on Aug 4, 2020.|Will be re-joined with individual-level offense list. |


## Data on Google Drive or elsewhere

Several datasets on Google Drive are crucial for identifying which offenses are potentially eligible for expungement.  

|File / Folder|Description|Used / Generated by|
|---|----|----|
|Prosecution Northwestern DA 2014-2018 RAW DATA - Excel stored in Drive (_/Data Analysis/cfjj foia_), not stored on github| Raw data from Northwestern DA received from Sana at CFJJ after a FOIA. Contains identifiers (age, DOB, gender, race), count, charges, disposition, disp date, offense date.|Cleaned and merged with suffolk data and expungeability by _analyses\notebooks\MA_Data.ipynb_.. Will be used to answer target questions issue #152|
Suffolk County Prosecution - 2013-2018 in csv files. Received from Sana at CFJJ; removed from git and Drive for privacy concerns. Now only held by Dawn.| Raw data from Suffolk county. Countains identifiers (Race, gender, but not age), cound, charge, disposition, crime category, offense date, dispo date.|Cleaned and merged with suffolk data and expungeability by _analyses\notebooks\MA_Data.ipynb_. Will be used to answer target questions issue #152, but cannot be used to answer questions relying on age at date of crime. It can still be used to help answer these questions: How many people (of any age) with marijuana possession charges? How many people (of any age) have only expungable offenses on their record but have more than 1 of them?|
Master Crime List with Expunge categories.xlsx| Data from Sana at CFJJ. The `Added FBI Cat. and Expunge` tab lists offenses, FBI category, offense type, penalty type (felony/misdemeanor), expungeability, why not expungable. Chapter and section may be extracted from 'untrucated offense'|Merged with suffolk and NW data by _analyses\notebooks\MA_Data.ipynb_.|

## Manual data correction sheets

After the join between Suffolk county, NW, and the Master Crime List with Expunge categories, many offenses were still missing expungeability information. This was filled in manually using several different sheets.

|File / Folder|Description|Used / Generated by|
|---|----|----|
|Google Drive\Clean Slate\Data Analysis\MA Expungement Analysis\MA Prosecution Charges - Manual Identification of Chapter / Section / Expungability <br>sheet: missing expungability (has chapter & section)|After the join between Suffolk, NW, and Master Crime List, these offenses had a  chapter & section, but still missing expungability.  | Used as an input by `new_expungability_info_join_emily.R` <br> remaining offenses missing expungability exported to `missing_expungeability_07-21.csv`|
Google Drive\Clean Slate\Data Analysis\MA Expungement Analysis\MA Prosecution Charges - Manual Identification of Chapter / Section / Expungability. sheet: missing chapter or section|After the join between Suffolk, NW, and Master Crime List, these offenses had were missing chapter and/or section. <br> *How was expungability filled in?*| Used as an input by `new_expungability_info_join_emily.R`|
missing_expungeability**.csv| Offenses missing indicator of expungeability after linkage between Suffolk and Northwestern data with  Master Crime List offense with Expunge categories spreadsheet provided by CfJJ. Filled in manually by cross-referencing with the original statute; confirmed by Sana in a phone call on Aug 4, 2020.| the 07-21 version is an output of `new_expungability_info_join_emily.R`. The 08 version was produced manually. Will be re-joined with individual-level offense list. |
Google Drive\Clean Slate\Data Analysis\MA Expungement Analysis\Charges with Contradictory Expungability Info|After the join between Suffolk, NW, and Master Crime List, these offnese have the same chapter & section, but some are labeled eligible and others ineligible.|Used to fill in information manually on why not expungable. Usually this is felony vs misdemeanor, or with/without a weapon, or against a child or elderly person. |
